Step 1
Login into your github account, click on create a new repo
Give your repo the name "intro-to-aws-labs"
Ensure Public is selected
Click create repository

Step 2
On your local machine, create a folder with name "AWSlabs"
Open VScode in your local machine, click on "terminal" to open a command line terminal.
If on Windows (it will have powershell by default), click on drop down button to change this to WSL
Navigate to the folder with name "AWSlabs"
Run command git clone https://github.com/awscloudessentials/intro-to-aws-lab.git (this will clone this repo into your local machine)
Run command cd intro-to-aws-lab
Run command ls -la to view content of local repo

Step 3
Go to your Github account
Create a personal access token in your Github account to enable you push the repo into your Personal account
Kindly follow the steps in this link https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.4/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token

Step 4
On your command line run git push <url of repo in step 1>
Verify text file exits in your remote repo.

Solution

Step 1: Create a Repository on GitHub

I logged into my account on GitHub and created a new repository.

The following steps were taken:

1. I clicked Create New Repository.
2. I entered the repository name intro-to-aws-labs.
3. I selected Public as the repository visibility.
4. I clicked Create Repository.

After the repository was created, I copied the repository URL which will be used later to push files to the remote repository.

Step 2: Clone the AWS Lab Repository on the Local Machine

On my local machine, I created a folder named AWSlabs and used it to store the lab files.

First, I opened Visual Studio Code and opened the terminal.

Since I was using Windows, the default terminal opened as PowerShell, so I switched it to WSL from the terminal dropdown.

Next, I navigated to the directory where I wanted to create the folder and ran the following commands.

Navigate to Desktop:

cd /mnt/c/Users/$USER/Desktop

Create the AWSlabs folder:

mkdir AWSlabs

Navigate into the folder:
cd AWSlabs

Clone the AWS lab repository:

git clone https://github.com/awscloudessentials/intro-to-aws-lab.git

The repository was successfully cloned to my local machine.

Next, I entered the cloned repository:

cd intro-to-aws-lab

To view the contents of the repository including hidden files, I ran:

ls
This displayed the files inside the repository such as intro.txt.
I used mv intro.txt Lab1.txt to rename the file

Step 3: Create a Personal Access Token

To enable authentication when pushing files to my GitHub repository, I created a Personal Access Token (PAT) on GitHub.

The following steps were followed:

1. I logged into my GitHub account.
2. I navigated to Settings.
3. I selected Developer Settings.
4. I clicked Personal Access Tokens.
5. I generated a new token with the required permissions.

The personal access token will be used as the password when pushing files to GitHub.

Step 4: Push the Repository to GitHub

After preparing the repository locally, I pushed it to my remote GitHub repository.

First, I connected the local repository to the remote repository created in Step 1:

git remote add origin https://github.com/username/intro-to-aws-labs.git

Then I pushed the files using the command:

git push https://github.com/username/intro-to-aws-labs.git

During authentication, I entered:

GitHub username
Personal Access Token** as the password.

Verification

Finally, I verified the upload by visiting my GitHub repository.

I confirmed that the files from the cloned repository were successfully pushed and were visible in the remote repository.

